# CINECA WP1 Meeting Notes, Mar 23

## Notes

### WP1 Communications Expectations

- Feel free to contact anyone on the WP1 team at any time with questions, or ask to set up a call at any time
    - Everyone checks their email; if you *know* the person is active on CINECA slack, you can try there
- Also feel free to say that you can’t talk right now and suggest alternate times and when you’ll follow up.
- Followup conversation can happen in whatever medium you’re both happy with

### Review of AGM

- Content:
    - Push for synthetic data generation - very useful for us
        - Issue across all WPs - WP1 should participate
        - Consequences for consents
        - Different requirements with different WPs - WP1s requirements are minimal (don’t need realistic correlations)
    - Good overview of progress of WPs
    - Still a lot to do with the cohorts:
        - Harmonization
        - Engagement
    - Where does harmonization happen?
        - Ultimately requires ownership by cohort - they're the only ones who understand the data well enough to do the work

- What went well for the WP1 demo and what we should remember as we prepare for midterm review
    - Successful outcome, even with a lot going on (COVID-19 and sudden work from home)!
        - But scramble at the end, probably unnecessarily so
        - Now have much clearer understanding, and lines of communications
        - Better idea of how to work together and who to talk to
    - Clarity of expectations - who does what
        - Evolving expectations - modify the tables or not?
        - How to incorporate variants and how many
        - Mapping - how much to do
        - Having the specific required queries would have helped with this
    - Communications slipped towards the end under time pressure.
    - Linking beacon and search?
        - Search as the inputs to WP4?
        - Different use cases for the two different APIs - play to the different strengths of each.
    - More common tooling w/in WP1
    - Clarity of WP1 ↔ WP3 needs: structure, data…. concrete examples (both data and queries) would be very useful
    - OIDC - to be implemented in Beacon V2
    - Followup with WP3, WP5
    - Need the UI - rapid pace of the demo made it hard to really see what went on.

### Slack or email?

- Need strong one-to-one conversation
    - Synchronous individual calls, followed by sharing results
    - Being more assertive about clarity of needs
- Preference for email, at least for notifications


## Next meeting
- Apr 6

### Review Milestones and Deliverables for this year for possible delays

- MS1.1/D1.1 Service Registry - June
- Mid-term review - Oct
    - Beacon V2 w/ phenopackets
    - Search API, UI
    - Open, registered, controlled access demo
    - Discovery portal
- MS1.2 Federated discovery across registry services - Dec
- D1.2 Query Expansion Services - Dec

### Review Tasks

https://github.com/orgs/CINECA-Project/projects/1
