# CINECA WP1 Meeting Notes, Sept 23

## TODOs
- EGA to report on timeline for defined v2 API (even preliminary)
- WP Lead to add additional person to mailing list
- Each site to continue reporting progress on Beacon implementations at next meeting
- WP Lead to prepare materials for discussion on extended queries, data registry for next meeting
- Each site to review use case document and forward any questions/comments for next meeting

## Notes

### Sites present current implementation plans and status

- CanDIG: 
    - Beacon v1.0.1 in go from OpenAPI spec to connect to existing query engines
    - Coming soon: https://github.com/candig/beacon
    - Will need to see v2 spec, even if preliminary, to proceed
- UMCG:
    - Have an existing implementation of Beacon v1
    - Waiting for Beacon spec v2
- EGA:
    - Will report back to group on v2 status
- SIB/SPHN: 
    - Colaus variant data set currently ingested into Beacon v2 implementation
    - Currently just have variant information, not sample information; issue there is not technical but one of what the cohort will allow

### Sites to review how much functionality is feasible by Dec

- Priorities for December:
    - Basic genomic data - variants
    - demographics
    - phenotype where available
    - filtering
    - access levels
    - Handover
- EGA: can expect to have functionality implemented, but cohorts will need to be “on-boarded”
- UMCG: v1 will be straightforward; in terms of v2 capabilities, permissions likely hardest
- CanDIG: v1 implemented, will likely not have complex variants, or beacon-defined access levels (likely everything will be controlled access for now).  Handover may well be straightforward, will see about fitering, phenotype, demographics.
- SIB/SPHN: filtering, genomic, etc will be automatically implemented; additional data types will require negotiation w/ cohort

### GA4GH Plenary attendance

- Both SIB + HES-SO: 2-3 each
- UMCG: unknown
- EGA: at least one
- CanDIG: 3-4
- Opportunities for a short meeting?
    
### Use Case Document

Please review use cases and report back any thoughts/comments/questions by next meeting
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ePMJ5tnDDQbdhMVBfo4r2O_A9xMctL4scYYu_JSAs2Q/edit


## Upcoming Meetings

We will focus next meeting or two on Beacon implementation progress, then start considering M18/M24 tasks (federation, interoperability, extended queries)

**Next meeting**
- Oct 7, usual time/zoom channel
