# CINECA WP1 Meeting Notes, July 27

## TODOs

- CanDIG, CRG to coordinate on beacon/permissions API “protocol” and CanDIG to implement in OPA
- CRG to send list of fields (for phenopackets support) to list so sites/cohorts can ensure that data is populated
- Stay in contact w/ WP4 and have people attend each other’s meetings (WP4: Tues at 2:30 UK time, on non-WP1-meeting weeks)  as required for collaboration
- CanDIG to look into clients that can consume phenopackets data for demo

## Notes

### Review of Todos

- CanDIG to implement a simple OPA rego script demo for feedback by HES-SO, Beacon team
- HES-SO, Beacon team to provide feedback
    - Done, feeddback from HES-SO and CRG
    - HES-SO: authentication will happen “above” beacon, request will arrive with ehaders
    - CRG: If request has token, will be forwarded to permissions server; otherwise will use authorization code flow with ELIXIR AAI
    - Since permission server will handle validation of token, getting user info, no need for that in Beacon when a permission server is used
    - CanDIG, CRG will coordinate on defining the protocol between beacon & permissions server (in progress)
- CanDIG to reach out to UCT team to discuss authorization
    - Done, conversations in progress

### Plan for Demo

- Discuss beacon development plan
    - Feature freeze Sept 7, giving sites 2 weeks to have correctly deployed, configured, and populated with data
    - Aim is for phenopackets support by end of August, authorization support earlier
    - CRG to send around phenopackets columns
- Disuss authentication and authorization plan
    - As above
    - Beacon API will be updated but not UI
- Demo discussion
    - CanDIG to look for services/clients that consume phenopackets to help with demo
- August/Sept work schedules
    - Several groups have people taking off overlapping periods in August
    - Does not appear to affect timeline

## Next meetings

- Aug 10 - WP1
